---
title: MODERN EDUCATION SYSTEM | HOW WE ARE CASHING OUR CHILDREN
description: Do we actually have their best interest at heart?
date: 2024-05-20T19:08:32+05:00
image: thumb.jpg
categories:
    - Parenting
tags:
    - parenting
---

 Is the contemporary education that we are receiving truly of value? This is a question that I often ponder. My inclination to draw upon the Quran and Sunnah in discussions regarding various topics has been viewed as extremist by many. The present-day corrupt education system that we are compelled to undergo offers no benefit for us either in this world or the hereafter. Yet, why does society continue to expend vast amounts of resources in this domain, despite the awareness that, in many instances, it yields no returns.

## What is real education?
 To date, a majority of us remain oblivious to the true meaning of education. The Quran commences with the first five verses of Surah al Alaq, underscoring the importance of knowledge, and the second revelation, Surah al Qalam, highlights the significance of writing. Whenever I critique MODERN education, I am often countered with the argument that Allah Almighty also emphasises the value of knowledge and the learned ones. "Read, in the name of God who created" (96:1). Allah Almighty instructs us to seek knowledge through His blessings, and thus, the knowledge that brings us closer to Him is genuine knowledge. I inquire of them, does contemporary education bring you closer to Allah Almighty? If the answer is no, then it is not true education, I'm afraid.
 Immediately after a baby is born, there is an urgent rush to enrol them in an educational institution, with little regard for determining what kind of knowledge is appropriate for their current state. They are burdened with numerous subjects from an early age, whose primary objectives are distant from our religious values. Due to this practical application is way ahead of a thing, they even remain oblivious to the fundamental principles and obligations of their own faith. Furthermore, we decide, from their childhood, what career path they should pursue, disregarding their personal preferences. It is clear that our minds are truly corrupted, as we educate our children not for the sake of acquiring knowledge, but rather as an investment in their long-term future.
 The cause of this problem is our inadequate understanding of our religious past, the Prophet's (PBUH) way of life, the lifestyle of his companions, and the lessons from the Quran. We are so preoccupied with worldly pursuits that we are entirely oblivious to our ultimate destination, which is the afterlife.

 Let us examine some of the deficiencies and unfavourable characteristics of the modern education system, considering both its secular and Islamic perspectives.

## Huge amount of fee
 As a citizen of a certain nation, burdened with exorbitant tax rates on even the most trivial of transactions, it ought to be our ethical entitlement to receive tuition, free of charge. However, this is not the prevailing case in the majority of circumstances. Although there exist certain countries such as Finland, Norway, and Czechia which offer complimentary education, Asian nations, predominantly Pakistan, display a fundamentally different mentality. Despite experiencing high levels of unemployment, the government remains inactive in elevating the so-called "modern" education system, which is in fact, remarkably antiquated, with the identical curriculum being taught to our predecessors, including our fathers and grandfathers.
 As a result, individuals from our lower middle-class community are unable to afford formal education. However, in my opinion, this is not the underlying issue. We live in an era of unprecedented technological advancement, where a wealth of knowledge from across the globe is at our fingertips. We can no longer claim that opportunities are scarce. Today, YouTube has become the largest university and education system, providing free access to information that was once inaccessible. However, some argue that the emphasis on degrees remains crucial for those seeking to embark on their career paths. Although YouTube is a treasure trove of information in every field and its respective subfields, it does not provide formal degrees. We must move beyond the culture of obtaining degrees and focus on developing practical skills, which are far more valuable in this new age of technological advancement. Through this, we can challenge the degree culture and transition to building a portfolio of our unique specialisations.

## Non-Ethical Education
 The foremost aspect of a learned person is their knowledge of moral ethics. Unfortunately, the prevalent trend is to focus on memorising books and information, without fully grasping the true essence of education and knowledge. Despite the widespread use of the phrase "a degree is just a piece of paper, real education is seen in manners," very few individuals actually prioritise this principle in their practical lives. In the modern era, acquiring knowledge is no longer a difficult task due to advancements in technology and gadgets. Thus, the main purpose of attending educational institutes should be to learn ethics and manners, social responsibilities, and understand one's relationship with their community.
 However, most individuals overlook these crucial components and view education solely as a means of securing a career and income. This way of thinking has plagued us for a considerable period, and its effects are distancing us from our moral values. We must acknowledge this as a significant crisis and act accordingly to prevent future generations from spiralling into complete chaos.
 
## Unreliable Subjects Co-ordination
 As previously noted, young students are overloaded with numerous subjects despite the fact that their young minds are incapable of comprehending them all at once. It is a nightmare to send infants aged 2-3 years to such institutes. At this stage, a child's intellect naturally indicates what knowledge is essential for them.
 For instance, scientists have yet to explain how a child of such a young age can comprehend and learn advanced language grammar solely through auditory senses, as blind children also understand language at the same speed, if not earlier. He learns the advanced chain of grammar simply by listening without any coercion, as the human intellect demands language at that stage. I am currently attempting to learn the Arabic language at the age of 17, and it is difficult for me because the genuine age of language acquisition is that stage of our development.
 As we progress in life, our brains require specific subjects, such as mathematics, social sciences, literature, natural sciences, etc. However, educational institutions nowadays overlook these factors and continue with outdated ideologies that only create confusion.

 I could just go on and on with these deficiencies and there would be no end. The real flaw is found in our mentality which is corrupted due to our own ignorance and being so distant from our religion. We are so lucky to have a perfect model of a successful life in the same of Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) who taught us how to succeed in every means of life through practical application and moreover an instruction manual in the shape of the Quran but still we decided to face away from these blessings and find perfection in this imperfect temporary world and the effects of which are now in front of us.
