---
title: WHY IT IS GOOD FOR MUSLIMS TO GET DEPRESSED
description: A new pespective regarding depression
date: 2024-05-20T19:50:37+05:00
image: images.jpg
categories:
    - Psychology
tags:
    - psychology
---

As I embarked on my journey in following the path of the Messenger of Allah (PBUH), becoming alike the Rashidun Caliph (R.A) and the companions of the Prophet (PBUH), I was faced with numerous inquiries. I pondered over the circumstances, traditions and culture of the era in which these Islamic heroes emerged. Allah had chosen to end Prophethood with His last Messenger (PBUH), entrusting him with the duty of disseminating the message of Allah and leading people from the darkness of ignorance to the light of true knowledge and the right path. Over time, people gradually encountered the actual knowledge of Islam and embraced it, becoming known as "The Firsts". However, what was the mindset of those individuals as they embraced Islam? Did they not have their own traditions and customs passed down from their ancestors and forefathers? Indeed, they were apprehensive about facing immense challenges from their surroundings, but as the true knowledge of Islam touched their hearts, they feared nothing but the hereafter.

 This marks the beginning of the Islamic faith, and it is crucial that we study how the Prophet Muhammad (PBUH) spread Allah’s message to the proud and ignorant people of Mecca from the very beginning so that we can apply those lessons in our own society. Declaring the Shahadah alone does not make one a Muslim. Instead, by accepting Islam, one enters into a contract with Allah Almighty to share this message with others. With great knowledge comes great responsibility, and regardless of the difficulties and challenges one faces, it is vital to remain committed to this message, as Allah Almighty will reward the faithful in the hereafter. To lead by example, we should aspire to be like Umar Ibn Khattab (R.A) and Ali Ibn Abi Talib (R.A), and follow the teachings of the Prophet’s (PBUH) life. Our world is gradually becoming more and more like the society of the Prophet’s (PBUH) time, where ignorance and egocentrism are widespread and people are unaware of the hereafter, so we must act as beacons of guidance for those around us.

Try to envision the Prophet (PBUH) as He decided to distance Himself from His people, the inhabitants of Mecca, and took refuge in the Cave of Hira. Disenchanted by the people of Mecca, who were enveloped in the darkness of ignorance, and whose way of life was fraught with every imaginable sin, the Prophet (PBUH) had not yet received any divine revelations, yet He was unwilling to conform to the customs and cultures of the time. So, He isolated Himself from the rest of society, retired to the Cave of Hira, and spent days in contemplation of Allah, seeking answers to His queries. Despite the absence of Shariah at the time, He contemplated and remembered Allah Almighty through His intuition.

As our society progresses, the true essence and significance of Allah's message seem to be fading away, causing great concern for those who prioritize the Hereafter. Such individuals, who have a strong emphasis on the Hereafter, are likely to feel disheartened by this trend. However, it is their conscientiousness that demonstrates their awareness of the current state of Islam. They are determined to acquire knowledge and seek divine intervention in order to share the correct message with others. It is important to note that Allah supports those who make an effort to improve themselves. Therefore, it is necessary for those who prioritize the Hereafter to remain steadfast in their pursuit of knowledge and consistently strive to spread the true teachings of Islam.
